README.md, before:

# Eureka² | The Collaborative Ecosystem for Science

<div align="center">
  <img src="data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns%3D%22http%3A//www.w3.org/2000/svg%22%20viewBox%3D%220%200%20100%20100%22%3E%3Ctext%20y%3D%22.9em%22%20font-size%3D%2290%22%3E🔬%3C/text%3E%3C/svg%3E" alt="Eureka² Logo" width="120" />
</div>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Eureka² (E²) is the collaborative ecosystem for science. We empower career and civilian scientists to share knowledge, collaborate on research, and accelerate discovery. Join us to turn inquiry into action.</strong>
</p>

---

## Table of Contents

- [⭐ About The Project](#-about-the-project)
- [🚀 Key Features](#-key-features)
- [🛠️ Built With](#️-built-with)
- [⚙️ Getting Started](#️-getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation & Setup](#installation--setup)
  - [Running Locally](#running-locally)
- [🏗️ Project Structure](#️-project-structure)
- [🏛️ Architectural Decisions](#️-architectural-decisions)
- [🧪 Testing Strategy](#-testing-strategy)
- [🔧 Environment Variables](#-environment-variables)

---

## ⭐ About The Project

Eureka² is a social collaboration platform designed to dismantle the barriers between professional scientific communities and the public. It provides a structured, accessible environment for scientific discourse, project collaboration, and knowledge sharing. The platform is organized around the core principles of the scientific method, with dedicated community spaces for **Inquiry, Discovery, Experiment, Validation, and Implementation.**

At its heart, Eureka² leverages powerful AI tools, powered by the **Google Gemini API**, to assist scientists in their writing and research process, making scientific communication more accessible, rigorous, and efficient for everyone.

---

## 🚀 Key Features

-   **Persistent Backend**: All user data, posts, projects, and interactions are stored in a persistent SQLite database.
-   **Real-time Interaction**: Live updates for new posts, comments, and notifications are pushed to clients via WebSockets.
-   **AI-Powered Writing Tools**: A full suite of tools including the Writing Workbench, Guided Writing, and Jargon Buster, all powered by the Google Gemini API.
-   **Secure Authentication**: Robust user authentication using JWTs and hashed passwords.
-   **Full API**: Complete set of backend endpoints for all platform features.

---

## 🛠️ Built With

-   **Frontend**: [React](https://reactjs.org/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/), [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
-   **Backend**: [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/), [Express](https://expressjs.com/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
-   **Database**: [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html)
-   **Real-time**: [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API)
-   **AI**: [Google Gemini API](https://ai.google.dev/)
-   **Testing**: [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) & [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/)

---

## ⚙️ Getting Started

### Prerequisites

-   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 18 or later recommended)
-   `npm` or another package manager like `yarn`

### Installation & Setup

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/eureka-squared.git
    cd eureka-squared
    ```
2.  **Install NPM packages:**
    This will install both frontend and backend dependencies.
    ```sh
    npm install
    ```
3.  **Set up environment variables:**
    Create a file named `.env` in the root of the project by copying the example file.
    ```sh
    cp .env.example .env
    ```
    Now, open the `.env` file and fill in your secrets, especially your `JWT_SECRET` and `GEMINI_API_KEY`.

### Running Locally

You need to run two processes in separate terminals: the backend server and the frontend dev server.

1.  **Terminal 1: Start the Backend Server**
    This command compiles the TypeScript server and starts it. It will also create and initialize the `database.db` file if it doesn't exist.
    ```sh
    npm run build:backend && npm start
    ```
    The server will run on `http://localhost:8080`.

2.  **Terminal 2: Start the Frontend Dev Server**
    The Vite dev server will host the frontend and automatically proxy any API requests (`/api`) to your backend server.
    ```sh
    npm run dev
    ```
    The application will be accessible at `http://localhost:3000`.

---

## 🏗️ Project Structure

The project is a monorepo-style full-stack application with a clear separation between client and server code.

```
/
├── dist/                   # Compiled output (from TypeScript & Vite)
├── server/                 # Backend source code (Node.js, Express)
│   ├── api/                # API route definitions
│   ├── index.ts            # Server entry point
│   ├── db.ts               # Database initialization and schema
│   └── ...
├── src/                    # Frontend source code (React)
│   ├── components/         # Reusable React components
│   ├── contexts/           # Global state providers (Auth, Socket)
│   ├── services/           # Frontend API service layer
│   └── ...
├── .env.example            # Example environment variables
├── package.json
└── README.md
```

---

## 🏛️ Architectural Decisions

-   **Self-Contained Full-Stack**: The backend and frontend are in the same project. The Express server is responsible for serving both the API and the static frontend files, simplifying deployment.
-   **Persistent Storage**: SQLite was chosen for its simplicity and file-based nature, making the project truly self-contained without requiring a separate database server.
-   **Secure by Default**: All sensitive routes are protected by JWT authentication middleware. Passwords are never stored in plain text, using `bcrypt` for hashing. Environment variables are used for all secrets.
-   **Type-Safe API**: `zod` is used for backend input validation, ensuring data integrity and providing clear error messages before data hits the database.
-   **Real-time Functionality**: WebSockets provide a live, interactive user experience. The `websocket.ts` service on the backend offers a simple `broadcast` function that can be called from any API route to push updates to clients.

---

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

The project uses Jest and React Testing Library for frontend testing.

-   **Unit & Integration Tests**: Components are tested to ensure they render correctly and handle user interactions as expected.
-   **Mocking**: API services (`authService`, `postService`) and contexts are mocked to isolate components and provide a stable test environment. The `test-utils.tsx` file provides a custom `render` function that wraps components in necessary providers.
-   **To run tests:**
    ```sh
    npm test
    ```

---

## 🔧 Environment Variables

The following environment variables are required to run the backend. They should be placed in a `.env` file in the project root for local development.

-   `PORT`: The port for the backend server to listen on. Defaults to `8080`.
-   `JWT_SECRET`: A long, random, secret string used for signing authentication tokens.
-   `GEMINI_API_KEY`: Your API key for the Google Gemini service. AI features will be disabled if this is not provided.

Commit message:

feat: Migrate database from SQLite to MongoDB
Replaces SQLite with MongoDB and Mongoose for data persistence. This change impacts database initialization, API error handling for duplicate entries, and project dependencies.

Updates README.md to reflect the new database stack and Cloud Build configuration to use Node.js 20 for dependency installation and building. Includes a fix for the ErrorBoundary component's state initialization.

README.md, after:

# Eureka² | The Collaborative Ecosystem for Science

<div align="center">
  <img src="data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns%3D%22http%3A//www.w3.org/2000/svg%22%20viewBox%3D%220%200%20100%20100%22%3E%3Ctext%20y%3D%22.9em%22%20font-size%3D%2290%22%3E🔬%3C/text%3E%3C/svg%3E" alt="Eureka² Logo" width="120" />
</div>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Eureka² (E²) is the collaborative ecosystem for science. We empower career and civilian scientists to share knowledge, collaborate on research, and accelerate discovery. Join us to turn inquiry into action.</strong>
</p>

---

## Table of Contents

- [⭐ About The Project](#-about-the-project)
- [🚀 Key Features](#-key-features)
- [🛠️ Built With](#️-built-with)
- [⚙️ Getting Started](#️-getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation & Setup](#installation--setup)
  - [Running Locally](#running-locally)
- [🏗️ Project Structure](#️-project-structure)
- [🏛️ Architectural Decisions](#️-architectural-decisions)
- [🧪 Testing Strategy](#-testing-strategy)
- [🔧 Environment Variables](#-environment-variables)

---

## ⭐ About The Project

Eureka² is a social collaboration platform designed to dismantle the barriers between professional scientific communities and the public. It provides a structured, accessible environment for scientific discourse, project collaboration, and knowledge sharing. The platform is organized around the core principles of the scientific method, with dedicated community spaces for **Inquiry, Discovery, Experiment, Validation, and Implementation.**

At its heart, Eureka² leverages powerful AI tools, powered by the **Google Gemini API**, to assist scientists in their writing and research process, making scientific communication more accessible, rigorous, and efficient for everyone.

---

## 🚀 Key Features

-   **Persistent Backend**: All user data, posts, projects, and interactions are stored in a persistent MongoDB database.
-   **Real-time Interaction**: Live updates for new posts, comments, and notifications are pushed to clients via WebSockets.
-   **AI-Powered Writing Tools**: A full suite of tools including the Writing Workbench, Guided Writing, and Jargon Buster, all powered by the Google Gemini API.
-   **Secure Authentication**: Robust user authentication using JWTs and hashed passwords.
-   **Full API**: Complete set of backend endpoints for all platform features.

---

## 🛠️ Built With

-   **Frontend**: [React](https://reactjs.org/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/), [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
-   **Backend**: [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/), [Express](https://expressjs.com/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
-   **Database**: [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) with [Mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com/)
-   **Real-time**: [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API)
-   **AI**: [Google Gemini API](https://ai.google.dev/)
-   **Testing**: [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) & [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/)

---

## ⚙️ Getting Started

### Prerequisites

-   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 18 or later recommended)
-   [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community) instance (local or cloud-hosted, e.g., MongoDB Atlas)
-   `npm` or another package manager like `yarn`

### Installation & Setup

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/eureka-squared.git
    cd eureka-squared
    ```
2.  **Install NPM packages:**
    This will install both frontend and backend dependencies.
    ```sh
    npm install
    ```
3.  **Set up environment variables:**
    Create a file named `.env` in the root of the project by copying the example file.
    ```sh
    cp .env.example .env
    ```
    Now, open the `.env` file and fill in your secrets, especially your `MONGODB_URI`, `JWT_SECRET`, and `GEMINI_API_KEY`.

### Running Locally

You need to run two processes in separate terminals: the backend server and the frontend dev server.

1.  **Terminal 1: Start the Backend Server**
    This command compiles the TypeScript server and starts it. It will connect to the MongoDB instance specified in your `.env` file.
    ```sh
    npm run build:backend && npm start
    ```
    The server will run on `http://localhost:8080`.

2.  **Terminal 2: Start the Frontend Dev Server**
    The Vite dev server will host the frontend and automatically proxy any API requests (`/api`) to your backend server.
    ```sh
    npm run dev
    ```
    The application will be accessible at `http://localhost:3000`.

---

## 🏗️ Project Structure

The project is a monorepo-style full-stack application with a clear separation between client and server code.

```
/
├── dist/                   # Compiled output (from TypeScript & Vite)
├── server/                 # Backend source code (Node.js, Express)
│   ├── api.ts              # API route definitions
│   ├── models/             # Mongoose schema definitions
│   ├── index.ts            # Server entry point
│   ├── db.ts               # Database connection logic
│   └── ...
├── src/                    # Frontend source code (React)
│   ├── components/         # Reusable React components
│   ├── contexts/           # Global state providers (Auth, Socket)
│   ├── services/           # Frontend API service layer
│   └── ...
├── .env.example            # Example environment variables
├── package.json
└── README.md
```

---

## 🏛️ Architectural Decisions

-   **MERN Stack**: The project uses the MERN stack. MongoDB was chosen for its flexibility and scalability, and Mongoose provides a powerful schema-based solution for modeling application data.
-   **Self-Contained Full-Stack**: The backend and frontend are in the same project. The Express server is responsible for serving both the API and the static frontend files, simplifying deployment.
-   **Secure by Default**: All sensitive routes are protected by JWT authentication middleware. Passwords are never stored in plain text, using `bcrypt` for hashing. Environment variables are used for all secrets.
-   **Type-Safe API**: `zod` is used for backend input validation, ensuring data integrity and providing clear error messages before data hits the database.
-   **Real-time Functionality**: WebSockets provide a live, interactive user experience. The `websocket.ts` service on the backend offers a simple `broadcast` function that can be called from any API route to push updates to clients.

---

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

The project uses Jest and React Testing Library for frontend testing.

-   **Unit & Integration Tests**: Components are tested to ensure they render correctly and handle user interactions as expected.
-   **Mocking**: API services (`authService`, `postService`) and contexts are mocked to isolate components and provide a stable test environment. The `test-utils.tsx` file provides a custom `render` function that wraps components in necessary providers.
-   **To run tests:**
    ```sh
    npm test
    ```

---

## 🔧 Environment Variables

The following environment variables are required to run the backend. They should be placed in a `.env` file in the project root for local development.

-   `PORT`: The port for the backend server to listen on. Defaults to `8080`.
-   `MONGODB_URI`: The connection string for your MongoDB database (e.g., `mongodb://localhost:27017/eureka`).
-   `JWT_SECRET`: A long, random, secret string used for signing authentication tokens.
-   `GEMINI_API_KEY`: Your API key for the Google Gemini service. AI features will be disabled if this is not provided.
